- [Narrator] Let's review some of the changes
in the most recent version of Java EE.
Java EE 8 introduced two new APIs.
JSON-B and the security API.
JSON-B provides support for serialization
and deserialization between Java objects and JSON.
With the prominence of JSON in web development,
this API is very useful for Java developers
building web applications.
The Java EE security API standardizes security concerns
across Java EE containers.
The new API provides three main interfaces
for handling security and introduces better CDI support
for security concerns.
Major updates were delivered for the Servlet,
CDI, and Bean Validation APIs in Java EE 8.
The Servlet API introduce support for HTTP/2
and new components were introduced
for pushing resources such as JSS and CSS files
to the web browser.
Additional updates added an HTTP Servlet mapping object
to the HTTP Servlet request
that provides visibility of the mapping
that caused a Servlet to be invoked.
The Bean Validation API introduced
additional built in validators
that test constraints for emails,
dates, numbers, and strings.
The validation API was also updated
to include validation of container elements,
allowing elements in a collection to be validated.
The CDI specification was split into three parts
to allow CDI to be extended
to work with Java standard edition.
Other updates made the observers
and events features of CDI more robust.
Observers were updated to include priorities
that control the order events are received.
Events were changed to allow them
to be fired asynchronously.
In Java EE 8, minor updates were delivered to JSF
and the JAX-RS and JSON-P APIs.
The JAX-RS API was updated to include a reactive client
to provide a functional, nonblocking approach
for calling services.
This capability is used with the new completion stage
to orchestrate calls to multiple services.
Service sent events was another capability
introduced in Java EE 8.
It allows a one way channel to be created
from a server to a client which events can be sent over.
The biggest change to JFS
was the introduction of server push,
which adopts the new capabilities
introduced in Servlet four point zero.
In JSON-P, support for JSON Pointer was introduced,
which provides a path based expression
to be used to identify specific values in a JSON document.
This is similar to JSON Patch and Merge Patch.
However these operations look to perform updates
on the JSON document using path expressions
built using a fluent API.
JSON Patch will cause the operations,
or updates, to be applied,
while JSON Merge Patch will provide a dif
of the differences the update will cause.
It is an exciting time for Java EE
because of the great changes introduced in Java EE 8.
We'll get hands on with the majority of these features
in the course.